Add a lint rule to warn on functions which assign to global namespace (#893)
luau-lang/lute: docs/cli/lint/global_function_in_scope.md

---
title: global_function_in_scope
---
# global_function_in_scope

This lint rule warns when a non-local `function` declaration appears inside a nested scope (e.g. inside an `if`, `for`, `while`, `do`, or another function body) rather than at the top level of the file.

## Why this is discouraged

A `function foo() end` declaration without the `local` keyword inside a nested scope implicitly creates or assigns to a global variable. This is almost always unintentional and can lead to:

> - Accidental global pollution, where the function leaks into the global environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Accidental pollution of the global namespace, where the function leaks out of the scope in which its being defined.
```
